All right.
Finally, it's time to talk about the superstar of DevOps.
Jenkins In this lecture, we are going to learn what is Jenkins and why is it so popular?
At this point, we understand the different phases of DevOps as well as what is CI and what is CDD.
But remember, DevOps has been around for more than ten years and it is a multibillion dollar market
with year over year growth of double digit percentage.
So it's normal that a lot of big companies want to capture this market.
Jenkins is one of the automation tool for this, but that's not the only one.
There are over 100 DevOps tools, including some of the tools from big companies.
And after many years of fierce battle, Jenkins is the winner, according to a recent DevOps survey.
64% of all DevOps pipelines run on Jenkins.
The next software is Tim City, where only 8% of the DevOps pipelines run there.
Then Circle CI and then the rest of the tools divide the remaining percentages.
So the main question is why Jenkins Why is it so popular?
So Jenkins is an open source sicced tool for Dave Hobbs.
It started in 2004.
The main superpower of Jenkins is it has the package flexibility.
You can install and run Jenkins in your local machine on prem, easy to docker, forget Kubernetes and
more.
And it is cloud agnostic.
Doesn't matter which cloud you use, you can always use Jenkins to instrument your second pipeline.
The other superpower of Jenkins is it has superior integration with numerous tools for all DevOps phases.
As you could see, there is a lot of components for each of these DevOps phases, such as compiling
code saving artifacts, unit testing, integration, testing, deploying, etc. And it is impossible
to have one tool fits all.
But the superpower of Jenkins is whatever tools you use for compiling your code, testing your code,
even doing security analysis.
Jenkins integrates with almost all of them.
The next reason Jenkins is so popular is because of its vibrant community.
Remember that Jenkins is open source, so they are not even charging money for you to run it like some
other DevOps tools.
Jenkins has over 1800 plus plugins.
You can even contribute your own plugins to the ecosystem or if you want, your company can write its
own private plugins.
Jenkins supports all that.
Since it has been around from 2004 and it runs on any infrastructure, it is very easy to find quick
starts, workshops and example and if you face any issues while deploying these.
Jenkins Quick stats are real world applications.
You get extensive question answers that's already out there as well as documentation.
If your enterprise does not want the open source Jenkins and want some sort of enterprise support as
well as some security checks and balances, that's fine as well.
There are other third party companies that build DevOps offerings on top of Jenkins.
One big example of this is CloudBees.
And last but not the least, Jenkins is constantly evolving and progressing with technology.
When Jenkins came out, it could only run on virtual machines, but today it kept up with all the container
development.
You can run Jenkins not only on Kubernetes, but on target as well.
So keep these reasons in mind in the interview, if the interviewer asks you.
What is Jenkins?
Explain that Jenkins is an open source ICD tool for doing all the DevOps phases, but also explain some
of the superpowers of Jenkins.
Now let's take a look at Jenkins and DevOps job market.
Why should you learn?
Jenkins The average salary, if you know Jenkins in USA is 97,000 per year and in India 6.1 lakh per
year.
Note that this is just to know Jenkins.
If you understand Jenkins and then some of the cloud components, your salary goes up even more.
The second reason Jenkins is so popular and why you should run Jenkins is most DevOps job requires.
Jenkins So if I look at LinkedIn jobs, there are over 60,000 jobs in United States that requires Jenkins.
Similarly, in India, there is around 17,000 jobs that require Jenkins.
So if you made the decision to learn.
Jenkins, you made the right choice.
All right, folks, let's dive deeper into Jenkins.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.